# Zika_epidemic
Zika epidemic was one of the worst epidemics that happened recently. It started out in Brazil and later spread to many parts of North and South America. It also spread to many islands of the Pacific and South-east Asia.  So this project takes a sample dataset about the spread of the epidemic and tries to understand the various dynamics regarding the spread of the epidemic.
This dataset shares publicly available data related to the ongoing Zika epidemic. It is being provided as a resource to the scientific community engaged in the public health response. 
Our job was to analyse this given dataset in order to find the different aspects for the spread of the zika epidemic in different countries over a span of one year.
The dataset is presented to us in the form of the file cdczika.csv, which is a csv(comma separated value) format file.
The fields in the file include:-  report_date : Date on which the observation was reported, location : The place where the observation was recorded, location_type : The type of location(province, municipality, etc), data_field : The type of observation recorded, data_field_code : The code of the data field, time_period : The time period if applicable, time_period_type : The type of time period if applicable, value : The number of cases recorded, unit : The type of values like cases, etc.
The first and foremost part of any analysis is to bring the cleaned data to the work area for analysis. For the data cleaning purpose we have used python to clean our data. The python script used is zika.py on the original dataset cdczika.csv. In order to have numerical analysis we need our data to be in numerical form. So we used our python script to read each row in the dataset remove the enclosing quotes and write the modified rows into a new csv format file. We have removed the enclosing quotes only from the value fileld i.e. the 8th field in our dataset. But the script can be used to remove the quotes from any field. Finally the new csv file generated was newzika.csv, this file has been used for our further analysis.
The first question or the first part of our analysis was to determine the the number of zika confirmed and zika suspected cases in each country present in the dataset. This is a very basic analysis but actually tells us a lot regarding the countries which are already worst affected by zika epidemic(confirmed), or the ones which may get affected very quickly(suspected). The two pig latin scripts ZikaConfirmed.pig and ZikaSuspected.pig shows us the various transformations that can be made on the dataset to achieve the results.
